Transformers docs redesign (#2128)
huggingface/blog: transformers-docs-redesign.md

---
title: "Making sense of this mess"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/transformers-docs-redesign/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: stevhliu
---

When I joined Hugging Face nearly 3 years ago, the Transformers documentation was very different from its current form today. It focused on text models and how to train or use them for inference on natural language tasks (text classification, summarization, language modeling, etc.).

<div class="flex justify-center">
  <img class="rounded-sm" src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/stevhliu/personal-blog/resolve/main/transformers-docs.png"/>
</div>
<p class="text-xs">The main version of the Transformers documentation today compared to version 4.10.0 from nearly 3 years ago.</p>

As transformer models increasingly became the default way to approach AI, the documentation expanded significantly to include new models and new usage patterns. But new content was added incrementally without really considering how the audience and the Transformers library have evolved.

> I think it's the reason the documentation experience (DocX) feels disjointed, difficult to navigate, and outdated. Basically, a mess.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I think that's the reason why the documentation experience (DocX) may feel disjointed, difficult to navigate, and outdated. Basically, a mess.
```

You are the expert here, feel free to ignore :)

This is why a Transformers documentation redesign is necessary to make sense of this mess. The goal is to:

1. Write for developers interested in building products with AI.
2. Allow organic documentation structure and growth that scales naturally, instead of rigidly adhering to a predefined structure.
3. Create a more unified documentation experience by *integrating* content rather than *amending* it to the existing documentation. 

## A new audience

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">IMO companies that will understand that AI is not just APIs to integrate but a new paradigm to build all tech and who develop this muscle internally (aka build, train their own models) will be able to build 100x better than others and get the differentiation and long-term value</p>&mdash; clem 🤗 (@ClementDelangue) <a href="https://twitter.com/ClementDelangue/status/1631493327844528134?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">March 3, 2023</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

The Transformers documentation was initially written for machine learning engineers and researchers, model tinkerers.

> Now that AI is more mainstream and mature, and not just a fad, developers are growing interested in learning how to build AI into products. This means realizing developers interact with documentation unlike machine learning engineers and researchers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that AI is more mainstream and mature, and not just a fad, developers are growing interested in learning how to build AI into products. This means realizing developers interact with documentation differently than machine learning engineers and researchers do.
```

Each era *incrementally* added new content to the documentation, unbalancing and obscuring its previous parts. Content is sprawled over a greater surface, navigation is more complex.

<div class="flex justify-center">
  <img class="rounded-sm" src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/stevhliu/personal-blog/resolve/main/transformer.png"/>
</div>
<p class="text-xs">In the tree ring model, new content is layered progressively over the previous content. Whereas in the integrated model, content coexists together as a part of the overall documentation.</p>

A redesign will help rebalance the overall documentation experience. Content will feel native and integrated rather than added on.

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Next Steps
```

> This post explored the reason and motivation behind redesigning the Transformers documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This post explored the reason and motivation behind our quest to redesign the Transformers documentation.
```

In the first screenshot we showed today vs three years ago, I think we could maybe stress a bit more that this is a complete new effort in case people get confused that this is a post-update analysis. That's why I suggested `Next Steps` instead of `Conclusion`, but of course feel free to do it your own way.

Author: Very good point! 💯
